# EfficientNet-C19 : Towards an Efficient Deep Learning Model for COVID-19 Patterns Detection in X-ray Images

Repository for reproducing the results: "Towards an Efficient Deep Learning Model for COVID-19 Patterns Detection in X-ray Images" [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.05717)

Abstract 
"Confronting the pandemic of COVID-19 caused by the new coronavirus, the SARS-CoV-2, is nowadays one of the most prominent challenges of the human species. A key factor in slowing down the virus propagation is rapid diagnosis and isolation of infected patients. Nevertheless, the standard method for COVID-19 identification, the RT-PCR, is time-consuming and in short supply due to the pandemic.
Researchers around the world have been trying to find alternative screening methods. In this context, deep learning applied to chest X-rays of patients has been showing a lot of promise for the identification of COVID-19. Despite their success, the computational cost of these methods remains high, which imposes difficulties in their accessibility and availability. Thus, in this work, we address the hypothesis that better performance in terms of overall accuracy and COVID-19 sensitivity can be achieved with much more compact models. In order to test this hypothesis, we propose a modification of the EfficientNet family of models. By doing this we were able to produce a high-quality model with an overall accuracy of 91.4%, COVID-19, sensitivity of 90% and positive prediction of 100% while having about 30 times fewer parameters than the baseline model, 28 and 5 times fewer parameters than the popular VGG16 and ResNet50 architectures, respectively.? 
